In order to test the conclusions of our experimental results, we also performed analyses on two
real-world data sets. The Coauthor network contains data about statistician coauthorship in
prominent journals, while the email-Eu-Core data set shows email communications within a large
research institution. The data sets were picked based upon their relatively small sizes and easy
interpretability. In both cases, vertices represent humans, which was done in order to test DSD's
performance outside of the biological domain.

Elsewhere, we have used the imprecise term \textbf{hub} to refer to the vertices of unusually high
degree in certain graphs (see page \pageref{def:hubs}). For the purposes of this chapter only, we
will use the following rigorous definition so that we can numerically analyze our data sets.

\begin{definition}
  Let $G$ be a graph. A \textbf{hub} in $G$ is any vertex $v$ whose degree is more than two standard
  deviations above the graph average,

  \[ \deg(v) \geq \mu + 2*\sum_{u \in G}(\deg(u) - \mu^2)^2\]

  where

  \[ \mu = \frac{1}{|G|}\sum_{u \in G}\deg(u) \]
\end{definition}

Under this definition, the number of hubs should be positively correlated with the width of the
degree distribution.


\section{Selected datasets}

\subsection{Coauthor}

The Coauthor data set consist of data collected from four leading statistical journals: The Annals
of Statistics, Biometrika, the Journal of the American Statistical Association, and the Journal of
the Royal Statistical Society. Ji and Jin collected data about all papers published from 2003
through the first half of 2013 and resolved data hygiene issues such as having multiple different
published names for the same author. A graph was then constructed where every vertex corresponded to
a statistician, and edges were inserted to connect any pair of statisticians who had appeared as
coauthors. This graph was then used to cluster the authors into three statistical subdisciplines
using a spectral clustering algorithm, SCORE, which stands for Spectral Clustering On Ratios of
Eigenvalues ~\cite{ji2016}. The labels generated by SCORE showed a high degree of agreement with
other clustering approaches and were found to be reasonable by human researchers, so we believe they
are suitable for use as ground truth labels in a classification experiment. The three labels
identified were ``Objective Bayes,'' ``Biostatistics,'' and ``High-Dimensional Data Analsysis.''

After restricting to the largest connected component, the network has 4388 edges on 2263 vertices,
and so is a relatively sparse graph. The average degree is 3.88, while the max is 65. The number of
hubs is 98, which is $4.43\%$ of all vertices. This graph appear have a scale-free degree
distribution, as can be seen from figure \ref{fig:real_world_degree_dist}, and so would be expected
to have a relatively large number of high-degree hubs.

\begin{figure}
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=0.48\textwidth]{coauthor_degree_dist.eps}
  \includegraphics[width=0.48\textwidth]{email_degree_dist.eps}
  \caption{The degree distribution plots for both networks. Both plots appear to show scale-free
    distributions.}
  \label{fig:real_world_degree_dist}
\end{figure}


\subsection{email-Eu-core}

The email-Eu-core data set is built from email data collected over the course of 18 months from 2003
to 2005 at a European research institution. Each vertex corresponds to an employee at the
institution, and is labeled an integer indicating that person's department. There are a total of 48
departments in the data set. An edge was drawn between any two parties which exchanged an email over
the time period in question ~\cite{snapnets}. The original version of this data set was directed,
but we discard edge direction information for our analysis.

This graph has 986 vertices and 25571 edges after reducing to the largest connected component. The
average degree of the graph is 33.9, with the maximum being 347. The number of hubs is 49, which is
$4.97\%$ of the entire graph-- strikingly similar to the Coauthor network. Also, compared to the
Coauthor network, this graph is somewhat smaller and substantially denser, which makes it an
attractive candidate for demonstrating the efficacy of DSD, as such a graph would be expected to
have more and higher degree hubs than a less dense one.

In addition and in spite of its small size, this graph has 48 possible labels, indicating an average
class size of just $20.54$ elements. This means that we also have to be more conservative in
censoring data on this graph, as it would be easy to censor too high a proportion of one of the
smaller classes to be able to accurately recover the labels.


\section{Results and Analysis}

In order to evaluate the efficacy of each classifier, the label prediction experiment was done using
5-fold cross-validation on each predictor. Cross-validation is a common machine learning technique
where the point set (in our case, the vertex set of the graph) is divided into $k$ equal-size
\textbf{folds}. Each fold is censored one at a time, and a trial is run using a predictor built from
the uncensored data. These trial results are then averaged in order to compute an overall
measurement of similarity. The primary advantage of cross validation is that it forces prediction to
be run on every single vertex of the graph. A disadvantage is that it requires use of small
censorship proportions. In this case, $20\%$ of vertices would be censored in each run.

$k=20$ was used as the parameter for the nearest neighbors algorithm. The results are summarized in
the bar plot in figure \ref{fig:real_world_results}.

\begin{figure}[H]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{real_world_results.eps}
  \caption{Real-world data prediction accuracy results}
  \label{fig:real_world_results}
\end{figure}

The coauthor results are especially striking, as all three metrics, including resistance distance,
performed extremely well. This could probably be explained, at least partially, by the fact that the
coauthor network is fairly sparse and that the number of labels is small. The lower censorship
proportion, $20\%$ as compared to the $70\%$ used in the simulated experiments, probably contributes
to the high accuracies as well, but informal experiments using random censoring at high proportions
yield very similar results.

It seems likely that the high label prediction performance is mostly due to the fact that SCORE was
used to generate ground truth. For some reason, the SCORE communities are clustered extremely
tightly irrespective of the metric. This is an interesting finding in its own right because it
suggests that the way that we think about clusters, at least in the context spectral clustering,
probably doesn't capture some important properties of the communities found in real-world data. The
fact that resistance distance works well on the spectral clusters but not the real ground truth is
especially noteworthy in this regard.

By contrast, the email-Eu-core results are much less surprising. DSD clearly provides the dominant
classification algorithm, followed by a surprisingly strong showing from SPD. RD performs like
random guesses, as it did with most of the simulated data (recall that as there are 48 classes,
uniform random guessing would yield an expected success rate of $1/48$, or about $2.1\%$).

These results suggest that DSD has some sort of built-in model of community structure which agrees
with the real-world data. We expect that these results would generalize to work well with a wide
variety of network structures, but particularly those whose topology represents some sort of
information exchange.


%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "../Main"
%%% End:
